The Joe Rogan experience. I read your story. Uh,
I saw a thing about you on NPR and, uh, it's crazy.
You've converted. How many people? 200 KKK members you've got them to.
Drop their robes, right? Some directly, some indirectly. Yes. How.
Did that all happen?
Wow. <laugh> uh, you know, I keep running into these guys. I'm,
I'm a musician by trade, right? Blues, musician, right? Rock and roll blues,
swing jazz. My degree's in jazz, but Hey, I'll,
I'll play whatever you want me to play.
<laugh> you're paying on playing <laugh> so, um, you know,
everybody likes music, you know, even the KKK <laugh>. So
use that to, uh, to my advantage. Um, I was playing at a bar one night in, uh,
Frederick, Maryland, an all white bar. And when I say all white,
I don't mean that blacks couldn't go in. What I mean is that, uh,
blacks chose not to go in. They weren't welcome.
And here I was in this bar with this country band, a friend of mine's band.
I was only a black guy in the band, only guy in the bar.
And upon finishing the first set this, um, I'm walking to,
to the band table and somebody came up and put their arm around my shoulder.
I turn around and see who it was. There was a white gentleman, maybe 15,
18 years older than me. And, um, he says, yeah, yeah,
I really enjoy your alls music. I said, thank you. I shook goes and,
and he pointed at the age and said, you know, I've seen this here band before,
but I had never seen you before. Where'd you come from? And I explained, yeah,
you know, they told me they played here before,
but this is my first time in this place. I just joined the band. And he said,
well, man, I really like your piano playing.
This is the first time I ever heard a black man play piano,
like Jerry Lee Lewis. And I wasn't, um,
I wasn't offended, but I was rather surprised. Cause as I said, you know,
this guy's like maybe 15 years older than me. And he didn't,
he did not know the, uh, black origin of Jerry.
There was a style of piano playing. Um, I, I explained it to him.
I got it from the same place Jerry Lee did from black blue and boogie woogie
piano players where the guy was incredulous. Oh no, no, no. Jerry invented that.
I never heard no black man play like that. So for you something, okay,
well this, this guy never heard of little Richard or, or uh, fast domino.
And uh, I said, look, man, I know Jerry Lee Lewis, he's a friend of mine.
He's told me himself. We learned how to play. The guy did not buy that.
I need Jerry Lee. He didn't buy that Jerry Lee or anything from black people.
But he was so fascinated that he wanted to buy me a drink.
I was like a novelty to him. So I went back to his table.
I had a cranberry juice. And then he announces,
this is the first time I ever sat down, had a drink with a black man.
And now I'm, I'm the one who's incredulous. Like how can that be? You know,
I'd sat down with thousands of white people. Anybody else had a meal,
a beverage, a conversation. How is it that this guy had never done that?
And innocently, I asked him, I said, why he didn't answer me at first,
he stared down at the table top and I asked him again,
and his buddy sitting next to him, elbowed him in the side and said, tell him,
tell him, tell him. I said, tell me, you know,
I'm trying to figure out what is mystery. He at me just is playing this day.
And he says, I'm a member of the KU Klux clan. Well,
I burst out laughing <laugh> you know,
cause it was getting weirder by the second half <laugh>. Yeah. And uh,
I knew a lot about the clan. Uh,
I I'd been studying racism since I was a 10 year old kid cuz of an incident that
happened to me back then. And I bought both on black supremacy, white supremacy,
the KKK, the Nazis, and neo-Nazis um,
to hard to understand this mentality.
And I knew a Klansman would not come up and just throw his arm around some black
guy's shoulder and praise his talent and want to, you know,
hang out with him and buy him a drink. So you know,
this guy's jerking me around.
So I'm laughing and he goes inside his pocket and pulls out his wallet and
produces his Klan membership card. They have cards. Oh yeah, yeah.
And he gave me his, uh, card. I looked at it and I recognized the, uh,
clan insignia, which is a, uh,
red circle with a white cross and a red blood drop in the center of the cross.
And I realized, oh man, this thing's for real. So I stopped laughing.
It wasn't funny anymore. And I gave it back to him and we,
we chatted about the Klan and different things.
But the dude gave me his phone number and wanted me to call him
whenever I was to return to this bar. So he could bring his friends,
meaning Klansmen and Klans women to see this black guy play like Jerry Lee.
I'm not sure. He called me a black guy to his friends, but, but uh,
I said, I'll call you. Wow. So, um,
I would call him every six weeks on a Wednesday or Thursday and say, Hey man,
you know, we're down at the, uh, silver dollar, you know,
Friday and Saturday coming on out,
he'd come out both nights and he'd bring Klansmen and Klans women and they'd
come and gather around the bandstand and watch me for the piano or get out there
and dance to our music. Now, you know, they,
they didn't come in robes and hoods, right. They came in street clothes and um,
on the break I would go to his table, say hello. Some of them were very curious.
They'd hang out there and want to meet me and talk to me.
Others would see me coming and get up and take off and go stand some other part
of the room where it's like, I just wanna see you.
I don't wanna deal with you kind of thing. Mm. So that was fine. And um,
I decided later on I would write a book because I had been
looking for an answer to a question that I had formed when I was age 10.
My question was, how can you hate me when you don't even know me?
And this was a result of having marched in a Cub scout
parade at the age of 10 being the only black scout in this, uh, parade.
And while most people on the streets and sidewalks were cheering us,
uh, we were marching from Lexington to Concord, Massachusetts to, uh,
commemorate the ride of Paul Revere.
And people were like waving flags and yelling and screaming.
The British are coming and all of the time,
except for one small pocket of people who were throwing rocks and bottles at me
and at age 10, um, my first thought was, oh,
those people over there don't like the Scouts. That's how naive I was.
It wasn't until my den mother, my Cub master,
my troopleader all came rushing over and huddled over me with their bodies.
These are white people.
And they escorted me out of the danger that I realized I was only target.
Nobody else was getting this protection.
And these were adults or these were other children. These were a couple, uh,
it was maybe about five people. I remember that, you know, a couple kids,
maybe my age, a year older, uh, and some adults,
adults were throwing rocks and bottles at a 10 year old boy. That's correct.
Yeah. Wow. And, um, you know, I <affirmative>,
I kept saying to, to my, uh, my scout leaders, I didn't do anything.
I didn't do anything. Cause now I'm trying to find out what did I do? Right.
You know, why are they doing this to me? Right.
And they kept you knowhushing me and telling me to hurry it, move along.
It'll be okay. So they never answered the question as in why this was happening.
When I got home that day after this parade, my,
my mother and father who were not there were putting cure Chrome and bandaids on
me and asking me, how did I fall down and get all scraped up?
I told 'em I didn't fall down. I told them exactly what had happened.
And for the first time in my life,
my mom and dad sat me down and explained to me what racism
was. <affirmative> at the age of 10,
I had never heard the term racism. Now what, what year was this?
1968. Okay. Um, I'll tell you why,
because my dad was a us foreign service.
So we spent a lot of time overseas. Every two years,
you go to a country you're there for two years,
come back home for a few months and then you get reassigned to another country.
So when I was overseas, uh, in elementary school,
my classes were filled with kids from all over the world.
Anybody who had an embassy in those countries,
all those embassy kids went to the same school.
My class was full of kids from Nigeria, Italy, France, Germany, Japan,
Russia, you name it. Um,
if you were to open the door to my classroom and stick your head in,
you would say, this looks like a United nations of little kids,
cuz that's exactly what it was. And we all got along.
Then I would come home after that two year assignment.
And I would be in either all, all black schools or all white schools,
I'm sorry, all black schools or all black and white schools, meaning the, uh,
still segregated or the newly integrated schools.
And there was not the amount of diversity in my classroom that I had overseas.
Today. You walk into a classroom, you know,
you can't tell where people people are from, from all over. So literally, um,
between 1961 and like 19 68, 19 70,
I was living about 12 years into the future when I was living overseas
because that, that multi cultural scene had yet to come to this country.
And um, when it did, of course I was already prepared.
Unfortunately many of my peers were not.
So I didn't experience racism had I lived here. My, you know, my whole life,
I might have had a different perspective and not taken this path. Um,
so I was very curious about it and fascinated with it.
Like how can somebody hate you? And they don't even know you.
It was just beyond my comprehension.
And I knew something was wrong because the people who did this to me
did not look any different than my little French friends, my Swedish friends,
or my fellow Americans from the embassy or for that matter.
My fellow Americans right there, you know, at the school where I went,
where we did the March. So I knew it wasn't a color thing.
In fact, when my parents told me this, I did not believe my parents.
I thought for some reason,
my parents are lying to me cuz my 10 year old brain could not process the ID.
DIA that someone who had never seen me had never spoken to me,
knew nothing about me would want to inflict pain upon me for no other reason
than the color of my skin.
So I did not believe them well a month and a half later,
that same year, 1968 on April the fourth,
Martin Luther king was a assassinated. And I remember it very well. Uh,
we were in Massachusetts, same place and uh, nearby Boston, Washington, DC,
my hometown, Chicago, Illinois, uh, Philadelphia, Detroit, Baltimore,
Richmond,
LA all burned to the ground with violence
and destruction all in the name of this new word that I had learned called
racism. And so then I realized my parents had told me the truth,
this, this phenomenon called racism does exist,
but why I didn't understand why. Okay. So it's here, but why?
And so that's when I formed that question, how can you hate me?
We don't even know me.
And so I've been looking for the answer to that question now for 51 years,
I'm uh, 61 years old. So, um, after I,
uh, I, I, um, met this Klansman sh oh, maybe I don't know,
three or four months later,
I quit that band and went back to playing rock and roll and blues and R and B.
And then it dawned on me darl. You know,
the answer that you've been seeking since age 10 fell right into
your lap. Um,
who better to ask that question question of how can you hate me when you
don't even know me then to ask it of somebody who would go so far as
to join an organization whose whole premise has been hating people
who do not look like them and who do not believe as they believe.
And this organization has been around for over a hundred years,
somebody would go that far to join the KKK should sure have an answer to your
question. Hmm. So get back in contact with that guy.
And why don't you write a book? Cuz I had every book.
I still do every book written on the clan and they all were written by white
authors obviously because a white author would have, you know, less fear of,
of Ram ramifications talking to a Klansman or interviewing them, um,
who would have easier access or could join the Klan undercover, get the story,
get out and write about it.
So my book became the first book ever written by a black author on the KU Klux
Klan, from the perspective of sitting down face to face,
I decided I would go around the country.
Interviewlan leaders there in Maryland where I live up north down,
south Midwest and west. And I, I said I would start right there in Maryland.
So I got a hold of that guy and I wanted him to introduce me to Thelan
leader from Maryland. What was his reaction? When, um, when I told him,
do you mind grabbing.
The microphone? Just pull it, just pull it a little closer to, there you go.
Okay. Perfect.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> what was his reaction when you called him up and said, Hey,
I want to know what makes you guys tick? Like why are you doing this?
Well, actually <laugh>, it's a little funnier than that. Um, <laugh> the, uh,
I, um, I found the guy's number, you know, from the bar,
from the silver dollar lounge. And um, I called it,
this is like months later and it had been, it had been disconnected.
So I had to track him down. It turned out he had moved, he didn't have a phone,
but I was able to get an address. And so I had no way of no, you know,
letting him know I'm gonna come over and talk to you.
So I showed up at his apartment one evening and knocked on the door and um,
I hadn't seen the guy in a while. Right. He opens the door and sees me, he goes,
Darrell, you know, what are you doing here? And he,
and he steps out into the hallway and looks up and down the hallway to see if I
brought anybody with me. And, and when he stepped out of his apartment,
I stepped in. So he turned around, he comes back in, he goes, what's going on?
You still playing? What's going on? I said, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm playing.
But um, I need to talk to you with the clan. He says the clan. I said, yeah,
you're a member. Right? Who? Well, I was, but I quit.
And he went into this long dissertation as to why he quit the clan.
So long story short, I said, I want to meet the Klan leader.
Did.
He quit the clan because of his interaction with you?
No, not, no. <laugh> actually he, he lied to me. Um,
yes, he was no longer in the clan, but uh,
what happened was he said he, he quit because he didn't, he didn't like, um,
their, their, uh, ideology. I later found out, um,
in my research that, and I got this from the guy who banished him, the,
the leader of the, of that particular claim group. Banished. Yeah. Yeah.
That's their term. They banished you <laugh> okay.
I.